Ingredients
3.5 - 5 oz (100 - 145g) octopus (cooked)
¼ cup (4g) katsuobushi (dried bonito flakes) and more for garnish
1 cup (5.3 oz/150g) all-purpose flour
2 tsp. baking powder
1 tsp. konbucha (or ½ tsp. salt)
2 large eggs
1 tsp. soy sauce
1⅔ cup dashi stock
½ cup finely chopped green onion
⅓ cup Tenkasu (tempura scraps)

Topping
Dried green seaweed (Aonori) for garnish
Pickled red ginger (Beni Shoga) for garnish
Takoyaki Sauce or Tonkatsu sauce
Japanese mayonnaise

Instructions
1. Cut octopus into bite size pieces (for my kids I cut into smaller pieces so they can chew easily).
2. Grind katsuobushi (bonito flakes) into fine powder.
3. Add dry ingredients (flour, baking powder, and konbucha/salt) in a large mixing bowl. Whisk a few times to combine all together.
4. In a medium bowl, whisk eggs and soy sauce together.
5. Add egg mixture to the dry ingredients, and then slowly add dashi stock while you whisk all together.
6. Heat the takoyaki pan over medium to medium high heat (on my stove, it’s medium high). Using a brush, generously oil the takoyaki pan including the raise parts in between bowls.
7. When you see smoke coming rising from the pan, pour the batter to fill the bowls. It’s okay for the batter to slightly overflow the holes. If you have a measuring cup with a handle, pour the batter in the measuring cup first so that it’s easier to pour. After you fill the holes, set timer for 3 minutes.
8. Add 1-3 octopus pieces (depends on the size of octopus – I put 2-3 pieces) in each hole and sprinkle on the green onion.
9. Then sprinkle tenkasu and powdered katsuobushi.
10. After 3 minutes or so, when the bottom of the balls has hardened, break the connected batter in between each bowl with takoyaki picks (or skewers). Then turn each piece a 180 degree, stuffing in the edges as you are turning. The batter flows out from the inside of each bowl and creates the other side of the takoyaki ball. After you finish flipping, set timer for 4 minutes.
11. Keep turning constantly so each piece will have nice round shape and will be evenly browned.
12. Transfer takoyaki balls onto a plate and pour takoyaki sauce, mayonnaise. Finish off with sprinkling green dried seaweed and katsuobushi. Serve immediately (but be careful – inside is VERY hot!).
